Blog: What is a Scout? (#17702)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/what-is-a-scout.mdx

---
title: 'What is a Scout?'
date: 2026-06-17
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - andy-maguire
featuredImage: >-

>   https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Screenshot_2026_06_18_at_12_09_21_82abf66a9b.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/scouts_84b3669c0f.png
```
Whipped up a header image for you @andrewm4894

Author: Thanks @cleo-pleurodon — love it, swapped it in! 🙏

featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:

>     - signals

Reviewer: Does this need to be it's own category? I suggest using existing ones

Author: Good call, thanks — switched it to the existing `Explainers` tag.

Its job is to emit useful **signals** — things worth knowing — that you or your agents can act on. Sometimes that action happens automatically, like an agent opening a PR to fix what the scout found, sometimes it needs some human judgement before you and your agent can tackle it together.

A scout is, at its core, **a skill** — and that skill becomes the main interface for everyone who touches or uses it, human or agent.

Core business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions in an old-school data pipeline starts life as a few hundred lines of English that anyone can read, write, and improve (and scales up to bundled reference docs and scripts with progressive disclosure when a scout needs them).

Code moves into language and instruction (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)), and the skill becomes the place where the logic actually lives and breathes.

Of course you can't get away with this for all data pipelines (we still need determinism for a lot of crucial stuff), but for those where you have the flexibility the trade-offs are increasingly worth it.

> This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that watches agent-driven MCP feedback, and one that watches what the internet says about us :scream:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that watches agent-driven MCP feedback, and one that watches what the internet says about us 😱.
```

## Your pipeline can be (mostly) markdown

In a traditional data pipeline, the logic that decides "is this interesting?" lives in code: thresholds, `if/else` branches, helper functions, a scheduler, a pile of glue. Changing what you care about means a code change, a review, a deploy. This is of course still needed and not going away, but for more subjective and flexible pipelines, the agent-pilled approach can offer many benefits.

With a scout, almost all of that logic lives in a **skill** — a markdown file (at a minimum) the agent is told to read and operate by. The skill is where you encode your business knowledge: what's normal, what's noise, what's worth waking a human for. 

What used to be `if response_rate < 0.3 and sample_size > 30:` is now a sentence like *"a flagship NPS survey needs ≥30 responses/week and a ≥10% score drop before it's worth acting on."* That's trivially easy to iterate on and sense check with your agents, and you don't need to be an engineer to do it.

Or even better (in many cases) you just tell the agent what you care about and are trying to achieve and let it handle the actual logic under the hood in the weights!

> As your scout runs over time of course you can easily add a list of do's and don'ts or anything else you want to steer it in ways that are valuable to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As your scout runs over time of course you can easily add a list of dos and don'ts or anything else you want to steer it in ways that are valuable to you.
```

### The "special" tools that make a scout more than a one-shot loop

On top of the normal read-only MCP, a scout gets a handful of scout-only tools:

- **`emit-signal`** — push a finding into the pipeline ([code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/emit.py)).
- **`scratchpad` read/write** — a simple, durable, per-project memory (more on this below, or read the [scratchpad code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/scratchpad.py)).
- **past runs & project profile** — so a run can see what previous runs already found and avoid repeating itself ([code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/profile.py)).

That's it. The scout reads existing inbox reports and prior runs through plain MCP tools; the only genuinely privileged things it can do are *write to its scratchpad* and *emit signals*.

### Dogfood it yourself, then let PostHog run it

> Because a scout is just a skill plus the MCP, **you can run one manually in any agent surface where the PostHog MCP is available** — PostHog Code, Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, whatever. This is a key feature, not an accident: you can dogfood a scout on your own project, watch it work against your real data, and tweak the scout until it's good — grounded in actual usage and the pain points you hit on the way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because a scout is just a skill plus the MCP, you can run one manually in any agent surface where the PostHog MCP is available — PostHog Code, Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, whatever. This is a key feature, not an accident: you can dogfood a scout on your own project, watch it work against your real data, and tweak the scout until it's good — grounded in actual usage and the pain points you hit on the way.
```

too much bolding

The thing that's a little different — and makes all the difference — is what happens when **PostHog runs your scouts for you**. 

> On the scheduled, sandboxed runs, the scout is allowed to *maintain its scratchpad* and *emit signals into the pipeline*. That permission is what turns a stateless one-shot loop into a long-running agent that learns, adapts, and evolves as your data does — while you steer it just by maintaining the one skill it runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the scheduled, sandboxed runs, the scout is allowed to **maintain its scratchpad** and **emit signals into the pipeline**. That permission is what turns a stateless one-shot loop into a long-running agent that learns, adapts, and evolves as your data does — while you steer it just by maintaining the one skill it runs.
```

## Signal vs noise: what makes a scout good

The hard part of a scout isn't finding things. It's *not* finding things. A scout that emits on every wobble is worse than no scout at all, because it trains you to ignore the inbox.

So the interesting logic in a scout skill is mostly about restraint:

- **A sense of when to speak up.** A scout's skill tells it to only emit when it's confident the finding is real and worth your attention — otherwise it writes a note to its scratchpad and moves on. Exactly how that bar is expressed is up to each scout, and it's a convention rather than a hard gate, so you can tune how trigger-happy a given scout is.
- **Dedupe keys.** Findings carry stable keys so the pipeline can group repeats and the scout can recognize "I already said this."
- **Disqualifiers.** Explicit lists of things that look like signal but aren't: a single user, a dev-environment burst, a survey at the natural end of its window, an internal test response.
- **Severity** (P0–P4) so downstream routing knows what's a five-alarm fire versus a nice-to-fix.
- ...anything else you decide!

> Here's the contrast that makes it concrete. On our brand-mentions scout, a lone *"PostHog is down"* tweet — no detail, no corroboration, one account — got **held below the bar**. The same week, a *"PostHog is getting expensive"* complaint that showed up from **multiple independent voices** got **emitted** as a pricing-perception theme. Same surface, opposite decisions, and the reasoning for both is written in plain English in the skill and the scratchpad.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's the contrast that makes it concrete. On our brand-mentions scout, a lone *"PostHog is down"* tweet — no detail, no corroboration, one account — got **held below the bar**. 

The same week, a *"PostHog is getting expensive"* complaint that showed up from **multiple independent voices** got **emitted** as a pricing-perception theme. Same surface, opposite decisions, and the reasoning for both is written in plain English in the skill and the scratchpad.
```

for legibility

### The scratchpad: how a scout remembers

The scratchpad is a simple key/value store the scout reads at the start of a run and writes to as it goes. It's deliberately low-tech — but it's where the "learning" actually lives. Over time a scout grows a small, legible memory made of a few entry types:

- **A rolling cursor** — "I've processed everything up to timestamp X" — so the next run doesn't re-read the same data.
- **Below-bar carries** — things not (yet) worth emitting, each with an explicit *promote trigger*: "emit this if a second independent voice echoes it."
- **Dedupe / addressed entries** — "I already emitted this theme on June 9; don't re-emit unless it escalates past *this* bar."
- **An evolving tag taxonomy** — the scout curates its own vocabulary for categorizing findings.

> - **Cross-links** — entries reference each other with `[[wiki-style links]]`, so the memory is a little graph, not just a flat list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Element | What it is |
|---|---|
| **A rolling cursor** | "I've processed everything up to timestamp X" — so the next run doesn't re-read the same data |
| **Below-bar carries** | Things not (yet) worth emitting, each with an explicit *promote trigger*: "emit this if a second independent voice echoes it" |
| **Dedupe / addressed entries** | "I already emitted this theme on June 9; don't re-emit unless it escalates past *this* bar" |
| **An evolving tag taxonomy** | The scout curates its own vocabulary for categorizing findings |
| **Cross-links** | Entries reference each other with `[[wiki-style links]]`, so the memory is a little graph, not just a flat list |
```

PostHog ships with around 20 **canonical** scouts out of the box — they live in [`products/signals/skills/`](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/tree/master/products/signals/skills). 

A sample and high level things they look for:

- `signals-scout-experiments` — validity threats like sample-ratio mismatch and zombie experiments.
- `signals-scout-revenue-analytics` — MRR/churn shifts and broken Stripe syncs.
- `signals-scout-surveys` — NPS/CSAT regressions plus recurring themes in open-text responses.
- `signals-scout-web-analytics` — acquisition channels diverging, attribution breakage, 404 spikes.
- `signals-scout-feature-flags` — evaluation cliffs, ghost flags, and flag debt.

You can also write your own **custom** scouts for anything you care about — again, just point your agent at `authoring-signals-scouts`. Some internal ones we've built recently to dogfood the system on our own project:

- `signals-scout-mcp-feedback` — watches feedback that AI agents file about our MCP server.
- `signals-scout-brand-mentions` — watches what people say about PostHog across the internet.
- `signals-scout-discord-feedback` — mines our community Discord for bugs and feature requests.

> - `signals-scout-self-improvement` — reviews the *other scouts* and flags ones that are miscalibrated or broken.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A sample and high level things they look for:

| Scout | What it looks for |
|---|---|
| `signals-scout-experiments` | Validity threats like sample-ratio mismatch and zombie experiments |
| `signals-scout-revenue-analytics` | MRR/churn shifts and broken Stripe syncs |
| `signals-scout-surveys` | NPS/CSAT regressions plus recurring themes in open-text responses |
| `signals-scout-web-analytics` | Acquisition channels diverging, attribution breakage, 404 spikes |
| `signals-scout-feature-flags` | Evaluation cliffs, ghost flags, and flag debt |

You can also write your own **custom** scouts for anything you care about — again, just point your agent at `authoring-signals-scouts`. Some internal ones we've built recently to dogfood the system on our own project:

| Scout | What it watches |
|---|---|
| `signals-scout-mcp-feedback` | Feedback that AI agents file about our MCP server |
| `signals-scout-brand-mentions` | What people say about PostHog across the internet |
| `signals-scout-discord-feedback` | Our community Discord, for bugs and feature requests |
| `signals-scout-self-improvement` | The *other scouts* — flags ones that are miscalibrated or broken |
```

Reviewer 2: table > bullet points

And to see how your scouts are doing, there's (you guessed it) an [**`exploring-signals-scouts`**](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/exploring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill — it surveys the fleet, reads recent runs, inspects the scratchpad, and assesses each scout's health.

## Two scouts, end to end

> This is all a little hand-wavy so far so let's trace two real scouts we run on our own project — one at the bottom of the [self-driving product pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) (an auto-fixable code paper-cut) and one nearer the top (judgment work a human owns).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is all a little hand-wavy so far, so let's trace two real scouts we run on our own project — one at the bottom of the [self-driving product pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) (an auto-fixable code paper-cut) and one nearer the top (judgment work a human owns).
```

### 1. The MCP feedback scout (the code one)

> `signals-scout-mcp-feedback` (you can see [it's a fairly simple skill](https://gist.github.com/andrewm4894/4aef57ab4b31fe78b889d1a2f94fa490)) watches a single event: `mcp feedback submitted`. When an AI agent (Claude Code, Cursor, etc.) hits friction using our MCP — a confusing schema, a tool that returns the wrong thing, a missing capability — it can file a structured report via the MCP's own `agent-feedback` [tool](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/services/mcp/src/tools/feedback/submit.ts). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`signals-scout-mcp-feedback` (you can see [it's a fairly simple skill](https://gist.github.com/andrewm4894/4aef57ab4b31fe78b889d1a2f94fa490)) watches a single event: `mcp feedback submitted`. 

When an AI agent (Claude Code, Cursor, etc.) hits friction using our MCP — a confusing schema, a tool that returns the wrong thing, a missing capability — it can file a structured report via the MCP's own `agent-feedback` [tool](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/services/mcp/src/tools/feedback/submit.ts). 
```

for legibility

> Authored by Claude Code (`claude-opus-4-8`) acting on PostHog inbox report `019ebd3a…`. **Decision:** chose to make `sync_frequency` a writable serializer field over adding a dedicated `view-set-sync-frequency` tool — it's the minimal change that fixes the silent-drop for *all* clients (frontend, API, MCP) at once and follows the existing pattern. Agent-authored — requires human review; do not self-merge.

</details>

That's the whole loop this post is about: one piece of agent feedback, turned into a reproducible finding with a verbatim fix, turned into a root-caused report, and picked up by *another* agent — no human in the chain until review.

Those boxes trace one finding end to end. Two behaviors from this scout generalize beyond it, and both show the system *learning*:

**Signals group into reports.** Take a token-blowout the scout flagged in `heatmaps-list`: it didn't spawn a new report, it **grouped into an existing one**, *"Add pagination and field projection to MCP list/schema tools,"* which was already `in_progress`. Multiple scout runs, over days, all noticing flavors of the same underlying problem, converging into one piece of work.

> **Findings escalate via memory.** Earlier the same day, the scout emitted a P3 about a missing `ensure_experience_continuity` input — and wrote a note in its scratchpad: *"promote to P2 if a second blocked report lands."* When a second agent hit the same wall, the next run read that note, saw the trigger fire, and re-emitted at P2. The escalation rule isn't in any code — it's a sentence the scout wrote to itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Behavior | How it works |
|---|---|
| **Signals group into reports** | Take a token-blowout the scout flagged in `heatmaps-list`: it didn't spawn a new report, it **grouped into an existing one**, *"Add pagination and field projection to MCP list/schema tools,"* which was already `in_progress`. Multiple scout runs, over days, all noticing flavors of the same underlying problem, converging into one piece of work. |
| **Findings escalate via memory** | Earlier the same day, the scout emitted a P3 about a missing `ensure_experience_continuity` input — and wrote a note in its scratchpad: *"promote to P2 if a second blocked report lands."* When a second agent hit the same wall, the next run read that note, saw the trigger fire, and re-emitted at P2. The escalation rule isn't in any code — it's a sentence the scout wrote to itself. |
```

Reviewer 2: table

### 2. The brand mentions scout (the non-code one)

`signals-scout-brand-mentions` ([you can read it as a gist](https://gist.github.com/andrewm4894/0eb4d6dde2fd10689b7027668a289ad5)) watches what the internet says about PostHog. And the way it gets that data is the point.

> **Anything you can land in PostHog is scout-able.** We pipe a social-listening tool (Octolens) into a Slack channel, and that channel is synced into the **PostHog data warehouse** as a regular table. The scout just queries it with SQL like any other PostHog data. There's nothing special about "analytics events" here — warehouse sources, Slack relays, third-party feeds, all of it becomes fair game for a scout the moment it's in PostHog. This is a big part of why scouts are general-purpose rather than a product-analytics-only feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Anything you can land in PostHog is scout-able.** We pipe a social-listening tool (Octolens) into a Slack channel, and that channel is synced into the [PostHog data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) as a regular table. 

The scout just queries it with SQL like any other PostHog data. There's nothing special about "analytics events" here — warehouse sources, Slack relays, third-party feeds, all of it becomes fair game for a scout the moment it's in PostHog. This is a big part of why scouts are general-purpose rather than a product-analytics-only feature.
```

- **Bring your own MCP.** Scouts read PostHog through the PostHog MCP today. There's no reason they should be limited to it. Letting a scout reach an *external* MCP would let it plug into the other tools and systems you already use — your issue tracker, your data stack, your on-call — so a finding can flow straight into where you actually work.
- **Whole units of work, not just PRs.** A real change is rarely one PR. It's the PR *plus* a tracking dashboard, the feature flag to roll it out, the alert to watch it, and an experiment to prove it worked. The ambition is for a scout (and the agents downstream of it) to assemble that whole collection, not just the code.
- **Right-sized models.** A scout watching for a simple threshold breach doesn't need the same horsepower as one reasoning across products. Letting simpler scouts run on cheaper, faster base models keeps the fleet economical as it grows.

> - **Smarter triggers.** Scouts run on a schedule today. Time is the simplest trigger, but not always the right one — we want scouts that wake on the *event that matters* (a deploy, a spike, another scout's finding) instead of just waiting for the next tick.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Direction | What it means |
|---|---|
| **Richer, more visual reports** | Right now a scout emits a structured finding and the pipeline turns it into a report. We want scouts to produce more of that report directly — charts, embedded insights, the actual visual evidence — rather than handing off a block of text for something downstream to dress up. |
| **Scouts that take action, not just surface it** | A finding is only useful if something happens. The natural next step is letting a scout do more than emit: ping you on the right channel, or take a PostHog MCP *write* action on your behalf — keep a dashboard tidy automatically, file an alert, tweak a flag — all within guardrails you set. |
| **Bring your own MCP** | Scouts read PostHog through the PostHog MCP today. There's no reason they should be limited to it. Letting a scout reach an *external* MCP would let it plug into the other tools and systems you already use — your issue tracker, your data stack, your on-call — so a finding can flow straight into where you actually work. |
| **Whole units of work, not just PRs** | A real change is rarely one PR. It's the PR *plus* a tracking dashboard, the feature flag to roll it out, the alert to watch it, and an experiment to prove it worked. The ambition is for a scout (and the agents downstream of it) to assemble that whole collection, not just the code. |
| **Right-sized models** | A scout watching for a simple threshold breach doesn't need the same horsepower as one reasoning across products. Letting simpler scouts run on cheaper, faster base models keeps the fleet economical as it grows. |
| **Smarter triggers** | Scouts run on a schedule today. Time is the simplest trigger, but not always the right one — we want scouts that wake on the *event that matters* (a deploy, a spike, another scout's finding) instead of just waiting for the next tick. |
```

The pattern here is to lean in and embrace being agent pilled, keep the core tiny and the skill in charge, and let scouts climb the [self-driving pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) — from noticing, to recommending, to doing.

## Try it yourself

> The fastest way to get hands-on is [PostHog Code](/code), our desktop coding agent — download it, sign in, and the PostHog MCP is wired up for you. From there you can navigate to the Agents section and explore the set of canonical scouts PostHog ships with as well as make your own custom scouts.

Reviewer 2: @andrewm4894 @cleo-pleurodon obvious problem, people can't do this... it's invite only.

Author: Good catch — softened this for now: noted that scouts are still rolling out and invite-only, with wider access "coming soon," and dropped the hard CTA. We'll firm up the actual access/CTA story with the team before this goes live.

Author: yeah i'd say will need to figure out what the CTA is here

---
title: 'What is a Scout?'

> date: 2026-06-17

Reviewer: remember to update date when publishing

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - andy-maguire
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/scouts_84b3669c0f.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
    - Explainers
seo:
    metaTitle: 'What is a Scout?'
    metaDescription: 'A scout is a small scheduled agent that watches your PostHog data, learns what is worth knowing, and emits useful signals you (or your agents) can act on. Here is how they work, with real examples.'
---

A scout is a small agent (don't overthink that word) that looks at, wrangles, and makes sense of any data available in PostHog. 

Its job is to emit useful **signals** — things worth knowing — that you or your agents can act on. Sometimes that action happens automatically, like an agent opening a PR to fix what the scout found, sometimes it needs some human judgement before you and your agent can tackle it together.

A scout is, at its core, **a skill** — and that skill becomes the main interface for everyone who touches or uses it, human or agent.

> Core business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions in an old-school data pipeline starts life as a few hundred lines of English that anyone can read, write, and improve (and scales up to bundled reference docs and scripts with progressive disclosure when a scout needs them).

Reviewer: I find this bit a bit confusing (probably because it's all one sentence). The intro starts clear, but then it immediately pivots to a philosophical point about markdown pipelines.

You could probably remove this bit from the intro since you mention it again in the body content.

> Code moves into language and instruction (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)), and the skill becomes the place where the logic actually lives and breathes.

Reviewer: Let's also not assume everyone knows Karpathy and why a tweet would be obligatory. Might be better to embed it – otherwise you're getting them to click away when they've just only started reading.

Of course you can't get away with this for all data pipelines (we still need determinism for a lot of crucial stuff), but for those where you have the flexibility the trade-offs are increasingly worth it.

> This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that watches agent-driven MCP feedback, and one that watches what the internet says about us 😱.

Reviewer: I'd avoid using emojis

If you just want to see scouts in action, skip to [two scouts, end to end](#two-scouts-end-to-end).

> ## What is a scout? (the longer answer)

Reviewer: This sections seems to be the pipeline context, not a deeper definition of a scout.

Scouts, of course, don't live on their own — they feed a pipeline:

1. **A scout runs** on a schedule, looks at some slice of your PostHog data, and decides whether anything is worth surfacing.
2. **If it is, the scout emits a signal** — a semi-structured finding with evidence, and a suggested action.

> 3. **Signals get picked up by the self-driving pipeline**, grouped, and turned into **reports** that land in your PostHog [Inbox](/blog/self-driving-product).

Reviewer: Link to Inbox docs instead (since you link the blog post again below)
I also wonder, since we've been capitalizing 'Inbox' and 'Command Center', should Scouts be capitalized too?

4. **Reports get actioned** — by you, or automatically by a PostHog Code task that picks up the report and ships a fix or improvement.

A report can be made up of many signals from many sources. Scouts are just one of those sources. A single report — say "this MCP tool keeps blowing the token budget" — might be assembled from a scout finding, error tracking, a few raw events, and a health check, all grouped together because they're about the same underlying problem.

Scouts are one (agent-pilled) way self-driving detects there's something to do at all.

> What do you mean self-driving, like actual self-driving? No, of course not silly, this [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) post explains the pyramid this all sits inside: routine paper-cuts at the bottom (great for full automation), strategic judgment work at the top (firmly human still). 

> ## Your pipeline can be (mostly) markdown

Reviewer: This is an interesting argument but it's selling the architecture before the reader understands what scouts do. It belongs after the deep dives/examples.

"A markdown file" is the lowest possible bar to entry — and for a lot of scouts it's genuinely all you need. But a scout is also a full [Agent Skill](https://agentskills.io/specification), so it scales up the same way any skill does. The `SKILL.md` is the entry point, and a more complex scout can bundle **reference files** the agent loads on demand and **runnable example scripts** for the parts that genuinely want code.

So the spectrum runs from "a few sentences of English" up to "a skill with reference docs and executable scripts" — and the nice part is you start at the easy end and only reach for the heavier machinery when a particular scout actually needs it. 

The really nice thing here is that it's easy to get a feel for this as you can just ask your agent how a scout is performing for your project using the [exploring-signals-scouts](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/exploring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill we ship with the [PostHog AI Plugin](https://github.com/PostHog/ai-plugin).

> Or even easier just press one of the suggested questions here on the scouts page in PostHog Code. "Make a scout" will use the [authoring-signals-scouts](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/authoring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill, scan your project and suggest some custom scouts for you.

Reviewer: Love the repo links!

![The scouts page in PostHog Code, with suggested questions for exploring and making scouts](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Screenshot_2026_06_18_at_11_01_02_101ddc91fe.png)

> ## How it works

Reviewer: How it works should go up with "what is a scout". You've also explained a lot of things at this point but I'm still kind of unsure what a scout does.

The bulk of what actually *makes* a given scout is its skill — the markdown the agent is told to follow. There are a few small config knobs too (how often it runs, whether it's allowed to emit yet), exposed via the scout-config [MCP tools](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/mcp/tools.yaml).

### The "special" tools that make a scout more than a one-shot loop

On top of the normal read-only MCP, a scout gets a handful of scout-only tools:

- **`emit-signal`** — push a finding into the pipeline ([code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/emit.py)).
- **`scratchpad` read/write** — a simple, durable, per-project memory (more on this below, or read the [scratchpad code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/scratchpad.py)).
- **past runs & project profile** — so a run can see what previous runs already found and avoid repeating itself ([code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/profile.py)).

> That's it. The scout reads existing inbox reports and prior runs through plain MCP tools; the only genuinely privileged things it can do are *write to its scratchpad* and *emit signals*.

Reviewer: Most readers will have never interacted with the Inbox before or know what an inbox report is/contains.

> ### Dogfood it yourself, then let PostHog run it

Reviewer: a good section for people who want depth, but I still don't know what a scout run looks like yet.

| `signals-scout-web-analytics` | Acquisition channels diverging, attribution breakage, 404 spikes |
| `signals-scout-feature-flags` | Evaluation cliffs, ghost flags, and flag debt |

You can also write your own **custom** scouts for anything you care about — again, just point your agent at `authoring-signals-scouts`. Some internal ones we've built recently to dogfood the system on our own project:

| Scout | What it watches |
|---|---|
| `signals-scout-mcp-feedback` | Feedback that AI agents file about our MCP server |
| `signals-scout-brand-mentions` | What people say about PostHog across the internet |
| `signals-scout-discord-feedback` | Our community Discord, for bugs and feature requests |
| `signals-scout-self-improvement` | The *other scouts* — flags ones that are miscalibrated or broken |

And to see how your scouts are doing, there's (you guessed it) an [**`exploring-signals-scouts`**](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/exploring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill — it surveys the fleet, reads recent runs, inspects the scratchpad, and assesses each scout's health.

## Two scouts, end to end

> This is all a little hand-wavy so far, so let's trace two real scouts we run on our own project — one at the bottom of the [self-driving product pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) (an auto-fixable code paper-cut) and one nearer the top (judgment work a human owns).

Reviewer: I suspect many readers will bounce before they get here. These examples should come much earlier in the post and then the architectural explanations will make sense.

| **Smarter triggers** | Scouts run on a schedule today. Time is the simplest trigger, but not always the right one — we want scouts that wake on the *event that matters* (a deploy, a spike, another scout's finding) instead of just waiting for the next tick. |

The pattern here is to lean in and embrace being agent pilled, keep the core tiny and the skill in charge, and let scouts climb the [self-driving pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) — from noticing, to recommending, to doing.

## Try it yourself

Scouts are still rolling out gradually and are invite-only for now while we shake out the rough edges — wider access is coming soon. If you want in early, email [team-self-driving@posthog.com](mailto:team-self-driving@posthog.com) and we'll get you set up.

Once they're available to you, the home base is [PostHog Code](/code), our desktop coding agent — download it, sign in, and the PostHog MCP is wired up for you. From there you can navigate to the Agents section and explore the set of canonical scouts PostHog ships with as well as make your own custom scouts.

> ## AGI Buzzword bingo

Reviewer: This is really fun but feels more like a social post than something to embed in a blog post?

---

> title: 'What is a Scout?'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 'What is a Scout? A technical deep dive'
```

date: 2026-06-23
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - andy-maguire
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/scouts_84b3669c0f.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
    - Explainers
seo:
    metaTitle: 'What is a Scout?'
    metaDescription: 'A scout is a small scheduled agent that watches your PostHog data, learns what is worth knowing, and emits useful signals you (or your agents) can act on. Here is how they work, with real examples.'
---

> ## The short version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: not needed

> A scout is a small agent (don't overthink that word) that looks at, wrangles, and makes sense of any data available in PostHog. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A scout is a small agent (don't overthink that word) that looks at, wrangles, and makes sense of any data available in PostHog. It's a core component of [Self-driving](/docs/start-here) in PostHog (now in open beta), an autonomous loop that monitors your product for patterns and drafts fixes. 
```

Reviewer 2: we need to mention self-driving earlier

Its job is to emit useful **signals** — things worth knowing — that you or your agents can act on. Sometimes that action happens automatically, like an agent opening a PR to fix what the scout found, sometimes it needs some human judgement before you and your agent can tackle it together.

> A scout is, at its core, **a skill** — and that skill is the main interface everyone works through, human or agent. The business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions in an old-school data pipeline now starts life as a few hundred lines of English anyone can read, write, and improve (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A scout is, at its core, **a skill** — and that skill is the main interface everyone works through, human or agent. The business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions now starts life as a few hundred lines of English anyone can read, write, and improve (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)).
```

> ![Andrej Karpathy's tweet: "The hottest new programming language is English"](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Screenshot_2026_06_21_at_11_40_29_9a3b4d308a.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Andrej Karpathy's tweet: "The hottest new programming language is English"](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/karpathy_tweet_8e8a64e5ed.png)
```

You can't get away with this for every data pipeline — plenty still needs determinism — but where you have the flexibility, the trade-offs are increasingly worth it.

> This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that watches agent-driven MCP feedback, and one that watches what the internet says about us 😱.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that [watches agent-driven MCP feedback](#1-the-mcp-feedback-scout-the-code-one), and one that [watches what the internet says about us](#2-the-brand-mentions-scout-the-non-code-one).
```

> This is the deep dive. If you just want the short version, the [docs](/docs/start-here) walk the whole [autonomy loop](/docs/start-here/autonomy-loop) — scouts, signals, reports, and the inbox — at a glance. And if you just want to see scouts in action, skip to [two scouts, end to end](#two-scouts-end-to-end).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the deep dive. If you just want the short version, the [docs](/docs/start-here) walk the whole [self-improving loop](/docs/start-here/self-improving-loop) – scouts, signals, reports, and the inbox – at a glance.
```

> ## Where scouts fit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The scout's role in PostHog's self-driving pipeline
```

> Scouts, of course, don't live on their own — they feed a pipeline:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scouts don't live on their own, they feed our self-driving product pipeline:
```

1. **A scout runs** on a schedule, looks at some slice of your PostHog data, and decides whether anything is worth surfacing.
2. **If it is, the scout emits a [signal](/docs/start-here/signals)** — a semi-structured finding with evidence, and a suggested action.
3. **Signals get picked up by the [self-driving pipeline](/docs/start-here/autonomy-loop)**, grouped, and turned into **[reports](/docs/start-here/reports)** that land in your PostHog [Inbox](/docs/start-here/inbox).
4. **Reports get actioned** — by you, or automatically by a PostHog Code task that picks up the report and ships a fix or improvement.

> A report can be made up of many signals from many sources. Scouts are just one of those sources. A single report — say "this MCP tool keeps blowing the token budget" — might be assembled from a scout finding, error tracking, a few raw events, and a health check, all grouped together because they're about the same underlying problem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A report can be made up of many signals from many sources. Scouts are just one of those sources. 

A single report – say "this MCP tool keeps blowing the token budget" – might be assembled from a scout finding, error tracking, a few raw events, and a health check, all grouped together because they're about the same underlying problem.
```

> Scouts are one (agent-pilled) way self-driving detects there's something to do at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scouts are one (agent-pilled) way PostHog Self-driving detects there's something to do at all. They help [make your product self driving](/blog/self-driving-product) by automating routine papercuts (great for full automation), so you can focus more on strategic judgement work (firmly human still).
```

> > What do you mean self-driving, like actual self-driving? No, of course not silly, this [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) post explains the pyramid this all sits inside: routine paper-cuts at the bottom (great for full automation), strategic judgment work at the top (firmly human still). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Your pipeline can be (mostly) markdown

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How scouts work
```

> In a traditional data pipeline, the logic that decides "is this interesting?" lives in code: thresholds, `if/else` branches, helper functions, a scheduler, a pile of glue. Changing what you care about means a code change, a review, a deploy. This is of course still needed and not going away, but for more subjective and flexible pipelines, the agent-pilled approach can offer many benefits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a traditional data pipeline, the logic that decides "is this interesting?" lives in code: thresholds, `if/else` branches, helper functions, a scheduler, a pile of glue. Changing what you care about means a code change, a review, a deploy. This is still needed, but for more subjective and flexible pipelines, the agent-pilled approach can offer many benefits.
```

With a scout, almost all of that logic lives in a **skill** — a markdown file (at a minimum) the agent is told to read and operate by. The skill is where you encode your business knowledge: what's normal, what's noise, what's worth waking a human for. 

What used to be `if response_rate < 0.3 and sample_size > 30:` is now a sentence like *"a flagship NPS survey needs ≥30 responses/week and a ≥10% score drop before it's worth acting on."* That's trivially easy to iterate on and sense check with your agents, and you don't need to be an engineer to do it.

Or even better (in many cases) you just tell the agent what you care about and are trying to achieve and let it handle the actual logic under the hood in the weights!

> As your scout runs over time of course you can easily add a list of dos and don'ts or anything else you want to steer it in ways that are valuable to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can be as prescriptive as you like, but in many cases you can just tell the agent what you care about, give it a goal, and let it handle the actual logic. You can then fine tune your agent as it runs by adding dos and don'ts, and other parameters that guide its approach.
```

> Everything else — the loop, the sandbox, the scheduler, the memory — is deliberately thin plumbing around that skill. For example, the [scout harness prompt](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/prompt.py) is already too long at 200-ish lines I need to try to chip away at.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Everything else — the loop, the sandbox, the scheduler, the memory — is deliberately thin plumbing around that skill. The [scout harness prompt](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/prompt.py), for example, is already too long at 200-ish lines – I need to chip away at that!
```

So the spectrum runs from "a few sentences of English" up to "a skill with reference docs and executable scripts" — and the nice part is you start at the easy end and only reach for the heavier machinery when a particular scout actually needs it. 

The really nice thing here is that it's easy to get a feel for this as you can just ask your agent how a scout is performing for your project using the [exploring-signals-scouts](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/exploring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill we ship with the [PostHog AI Plugin](https://github.com/PostHog/ai-plugin).

Or even easier just press one of the suggested questions here on the scouts page in PostHog Code. "Make a scout" will use the [authoring-signals-scouts](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/authoring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill, scan your project and suggest some custom scouts for you.

![The scouts page in PostHog Code, with suggested questions for exploring and making scouts](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Screenshot_2026_06_18_at_11_01_02_101ddc91fe.png)

> ## How it works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The scout harness
```

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    Coord["Coordinator<br/>~30 min tick"]

    Coord -->|per scout| Harness

    subgraph Harness["Scout harness"]
        direction TB
        Skill["SKILL.md"] --> Loop(["agent loop"])
        Loop --> MCP["<b>PostHog MCP</b><br/>read your data"]
        Loop --> Scout["<b>scout tools</b><br/>- profile<br/>- scratchpad<br/>- emit"]
    end

    Harness -->|findings| Pipe

    subgraph Pipe["Self-driving pipeline"]
        direction LR
        Sig["signal"] --> Buf["buffer"] --> Grp["grouping"] --> Rep["report"] --> Act["action"]
    end

    style Coord fill:#1d4aff,stroke:#1535b3,color:#fff
    style Harness fill:#f9f9f9,stroke:#d0d0d0,color:#333
    style Skill fill:#f54e00,stroke:#c43d00,color:#fff
    style Loop fill:#ffeb9c,stroke:#d9b441,color:#333
    style MCP fill:#e8f0fe,stroke:#1d4aff,color:#333
    style Scout fill:#eafbe7,stroke:#3aa655,color:#333
    style Pipe fill:#fafafa,stroke:#e0e0e0,color:#333
    style Sig fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Buf fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Grp fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Rep fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Act fill:#f54e00,stroke:#c43d00,color:#fff
```

> The main ingredients:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main ingredients are:
```

- **An agent loop runner.** The thing that actually pumps the loop. ([`runner.py`](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/runner.py), `arun_signals_scout()`.)
- **Tools for the agent.** Mostly just the [PostHog MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) — the same MCP you can connect to Claude Code or Cursor today. The aim is to build as little custom code as we can; the agent reads your data through the exact tools anyone else gets.
- **A sandbox** to run the loop in, with a project-scoped token so it can only touch the data it's allowed to.
- **Some memory** (another bingo word — don't overthink it) so a scout can be more than a goldfish that forgets everything between runs (see the [scratchpad](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/scratchpad.py) tools if curious).

> - **A scheduler** to run the loop regularly. We use [Temporal](https://temporal.io/): a coordinator ticks every ~30 minutes, finds which scouts are due (most run hourly), and fans out one run per scout (you can see the [coordinator code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/temporal/agentic/scout_coordinator.py) for yourself).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Ingredient | What it is |
| --- | --- |
| Agent loop runner | The thing that actually pumps the loop (`runner.py`, `arun_signals_scout()`). |
| Tools for the agent | Mostly just the [PostHog MCP](https://1c173e83.posthog-preview.pages.dev/docs/model-context-protocol) — the same one you can connect to Claude Code or Cursor today. The aim is to build as little custom code as possible; the agent reads your data through the exact tools anyone else gets. |
| Sandbox | An environment to run the loop in, with a project-scoped token so it can only touch the data it's allowed to. |
| Memory | Another bingo word — don't overthink it. Lets a scout be more than a goldfish that forgets everything between runs (see the [scratchpad](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/scratchpad.py) tools). |
| Scheduler | Runs the loop regularly. We use [Temporal](https://temporal.io/): a coordinator ticks every ~30 minutes, finds which scouts are due (most run hourly), and fans out one run per scout (see the [coordinator code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/temporal/agentic/scout_coordinator.py)). |
```

The bulk of what actually *makes* a given scout is its skill — the markdown the agent is told to follow. There are a few small config knobs too (how often it runs, whether it's allowed to emit yet), exposed via the scout-config [MCP tools](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/mcp/tools.yaml).

### The "special" tools that make a scout more than a one-shot loop

On top of the normal read-only MCP, a scout gets a handful of scout-only tools:

- **`emit-signal`** — push a finding into the pipeline ([code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/emit.py)).
- **`scratchpad` read/write** — a simple, durable, per-project memory (more on this below, or read the [scratchpad code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/scratchpad.py)).

> - **past runs & project profile** — so a run can see what previous runs already found and avoid repeating itself ([code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/profile.py)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Tool | What it does | Code |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `emit-signal` | Push a finding into the pipeline | [Read code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/emit.py) |
| `scratchpad` read/write | A simple, durable, per-project memory | [Read code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/scratchpad.py) |
| past runs & project profile | Lets a run see what previous runs already found and avoid repeating itself | [View code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/backend/scout_harness/tools/profile.py) |
```

That's it. The scout reads existing inbox reports and prior runs through plain MCP tools; the only genuinely privileged things it can do are *write to its scratchpad* and *emit signals*.

### Dogfood it yourself, then let PostHog run it

> Because a scout is just a skill plus the MCP, you can run one manually in any agent surface where the PostHog MCP is available — PostHog Code, Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, whatever. This is a key feature, not an accident: you can dogfood a scout on your own project, watch it work against your real data, and tweak the scout until it's good — grounded in actual usage and the pain points you hit on the way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because a scout is just a skill plus the MCP, you can run one manually in any agent surface where the PostHog MCP is available — PostHog Code, Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, whatever. 

This is a key feature, not an accident: you can dogfood a scout on your own project, watch it work against your real data, and tweak the scout until it's good – grounded in actual usage and the pain points you hit on the way.
```

The thing that's a little different — and makes all the difference — is what happens when **PostHog runs your scouts for you**. 

On the scheduled, sandboxed runs, the scout is allowed to **maintain its scratchpad** and **emit signals into the pipeline**. That permission is what turns a stateless one-shot loop into a long-running agent that learns, adapts, and evolves as your data does — while you steer it just by maintaining the one skill it runs.

> ## Signal vs noise: what makes a scout good

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Signal vs noise: What makes a scout good?
```

> The hard part of a scout isn't finding things. It's *not* finding things. A scout that emits on every wobble is worse than no scout at all, because it trains you to ignore the inbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The hard part of a scout isn't finding things. It's *not* finding things. A scout that emits on every wobble is worse than no scout at all, because it trains you to ignore them.
```

> So the interesting logic in a scout skill is mostly about restraint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So the interesting logic in a scout skill is mostly about restraint, such as:
```

- **Dedupe keys.** Findings carry stable keys so the pipeline can group repeats and the scout can recognize "I already said this."
- **Disqualifiers.** Explicit lists of things that look like signal but aren't: a single user, a dev-environment burst, a survey at the natural end of its window, an internal test response.
- **Severity** (P0–P4) so downstream routing knows what's a five-alarm fire versus a nice-to-fix.
- ...anything else you decide!

Here's the contrast that makes it concrete. On our brand-mentions scout, a lone *"PostHog is down"* tweet — no detail, no corroboration, one account — got **held below the bar**. 

The same week, a *"PostHog is getting expensive"* complaint that showed up from **multiple independent voices** got **emitted** as a pricing-perception theme. Same surface, opposite decisions, and the reasoning for both is written in plain English in the skill and the scratchpad.

> ### The scratchpad: how a scout remembers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The scratchpad: How a scout remembers
```

> The scratchpad is a simple key/value store the scout reads at the start of a run and writes to as it goes. It's deliberately low-tech — but it's where the "learning" actually lives. Over time a scout grows a small, legible memory made of a few entry types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The scratchpad is a simple key/value store the scout reads at the start of a run and writes to as it goes. It's deliberately low-tech, but it's where the "learning" actually lives. Over time a scout grows a small, legible memory made of a few entry types:
```

| **An evolving tag taxonomy** | The scout curates its own vocabulary for categorizing findings |
| **Cross-links** | Entries reference each other with `[[wiki-style links]]`, so the memory is a little graph, not just a flat list |

Again you can steer your scout to take a different approach to memory here as works best for you.

This is the second half of the markdown thesis: not only did the `if/else` become English, the *database row* became a scratchpad note the agent reads and rewrites every run. You can read a scout's entire scratchpad and understand exactly what it knows and why it's been quiet.

## Making a scout

A scout is 99% a skill, so making one is mostly writing (and iterating on) a skill. You don't do that by hand — you have your agent use the **`authoring-signals-scouts`** skill, which walks it through the anatomy: the emit contract, dedupe and memory conventions, disqualifiers, and the schedule config.

PostHog ships with around 20 **canonical** scouts out of the box — they live in [`products/signals/skills/`](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/tree/master/products/signals/skills). 

> A sample and high level things they look for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog ships with around 20 **canonical** scouts out of the box — they live in [`products/signals/skills/`](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/tree/master/products/signals/skills). Here's a sample and high-level things they look for:
```

| Scout | What it looks for |
|---|---|
| `signals-scout-experiments` | Validity threats like sample-ratio mismatch and zombie experiments |
| `signals-scout-revenue-analytics` | MRR/churn shifts and broken Stripe syncs |
| `signals-scout-surveys` | NPS/CSAT regressions plus recurring themes in open-text responses |
| `signals-scout-web-analytics` | Acquisition channels diverging, attribution breakage, 404 spikes |
| `signals-scout-feature-flags` | Evaluation cliffs, ghost flags, and flag debt |

> You can also write your own **custom** scouts for anything you care about — again, just point your agent at `authoring-signals-scouts`. Some internal ones we've built recently to dogfood the system on our own project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also write your own **custom** scouts for anything you care about — again, just point your agent at `authoring-signals-scouts`. Here are some internal ones we've built recently to dogfood the system:
```

| Scout | What it watches |
|---|---|
| `signals-scout-mcp-feedback` | Feedback that AI agents file about our MCP server |
| `signals-scout-brand-mentions` | What people say about PostHog across the internet |
| `signals-scout-discord-feedback` | Our community Discord, for bugs and feature requests |
| `signals-scout-self-improvement` | The *other scouts* — flags ones that are miscalibrated or broken |

And to see how your scouts are doing, there's (you guessed it) an [**`exploring-signals-scouts`**](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/products/signals/skills/exploring-signals-scouts/SKILL.md) skill — it surveys the fleet, reads recent runs, inspects the scratchpad, and assesses each scout's health.

> ## Two scouts, end to end

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Two example scouts, explained end to end
```

The scout just queries it with SQL like any other PostHog data. There's nothing special about "analytics events" here — warehouse sources, Slack relays, third-party feeds, all of it becomes fair game for a scout the moment it's in PostHog. This is a big part of why scouts are general-purpose rather than a product-analytics-only feature.

This scout sits higher on the [self-driving pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) than the MCP one: when it finds something, the action usually isn't a PR — it's comms, product strategy, or just situational awareness. A few real (anonymized) examples it surfaced:

**A reputational narrative escalating.** A privacy claim about PostHog jumped from niche threads to a large-audience commentator, with the framing shifting to attack PostHog directly (and, notably, *inaccurately*). The scout emitted a **P2 recommending comms/legal own the narrative** — citing the two earlier, lower-severity findings it had filed about the same theme as it built.

> **Us, roasted, repeatedly.** The scout also keeps a running *"PostHog is too complex / bloated"* theme — and the genuinely useful part is watching it *decide what's worth your attention*. Most of these never clear the bar (one voice, low reach, a matter of taste), so the scout logs each with a deadpan verdict and a *"promote if a second voice echoes"* trigger, and stays quiet. Pop these open for the actual public roasts — and the scout's clinical reasoning for holding them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Finding | What happened |
| --- | --- |
| A reputational narrative escalating | A privacy claim about PostHog jumped from niche threads to a large-audience commentator, with the framing shifting to attack PostHog directly (and, notably, inaccurately). The scout emitted a P2 recommending comms/legal own the narrative – citing the two earlier, lower-severity findings it had filed about the same theme as it built. |
| Us, roasted, repeatedly | The scout keeps a running "PostHog is too complex / bloated" theme – and the genuinely useful part is watching it decide what's worth your attention. Most of these never clear the bar (one voice, low reach, a matter of taste), so the scout logs each with a deadpan verdict and a "promote if a second voice echoes" trigger, and stays quiet. Pop these open for the actual public roasts – and the scout's clinical reasoning for holding them. |

Pop these open for the actual public roasts and the scout's clinical reason for holding them:
```

The sharp bit the scout pulled out: this isn't *"AI bad."* The same accounts praise it (*"they cooked on that thing, it's really really good"*) — the gripe is specifically that the AI is the **default landing screen**, which is a default-setting and discoverability call (there's already an option to customize the landing screen), not a missing feature. Held below bar as a single thread.

</details>

All real, all public, all genuinely useful to know in aggregate — and all held back until they actually matter.

And this is the scout whose scratchpad best shows the **memory model evolving**. Across runs it has built up:

- a `pattern:brand_mentions:cursor` entry it overwrites every run (the rolling "I've read up to here" mark),
- a stack of `*-belowbar` carries — *"a user says PostHog's bot-filtering is letting bots through; n=1, low reach — promote if a second independent voice reports the same,"*
- `addressed:*` entries recording every theme it's already emitted and the exact bar for re-emitting,
- and its own `tags:brand_mentions:taxonomy` vocabulary, with entries cross-linked by `[[name]]` references.

> You can read that scratchpad top to bottom and reconstruct everything the scout knows, every judgment call it's made, and why it's been quiet on the things it's chosen to stay quiet on. That legibility — being able to *audit an agent's memory in plain text* — is, to me, the whole pitch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can read that scratchpad top to bottom and reconstruct everything the scout knows, every judgment call it's made, and why it's been quiet on the things it's chosen to stay quiet on. 

That legibility — being able to *audit an agent's memory in plain text* — is, to me, the whole pitch.
```

> ## Ideas: what else to point a scout at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Potential scout ideas you can build 
```

- **Own a funnel or a journey.** A scout can watch your key funnels and activation flows across every PostHog feature you use, flag a conversion or retention regression against the flow's own trailing baseline — and even propose the A/B [experiment](/docs/experiments) to fix the weakest step.
- **Have it read your codebase.** Give a scout a repo and a job: scan recent code changes and keep your [agent skills](https://agentskills.io/specification) in sync as things move, catch docs that have drifted out of date, flag a feature shipped with no instrumentation, spot a third-party API version about to be deprecated, or run a static-analysis tool over the last week's diffs.
- **Let it dogfood your own tools.** A scout can *use* your product, not just read it — we run one that random-walks our own [MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) tool surface and files the rough edges it hits first-hand (and once scouts can reach external MCPs, this extends to whatever you've built).
- **Point a scout at your scouts.** A meta-scout that audits the rest of the fleet for miscalibration, plus a follow-up scout that re-checks "resolved" reports after a soak window to confirm the fix actually held.

> - **Let findings carry real depth.** When a finding is more than a sentence, a scout can write the charts and supporting queries into a [notebook](/docs/notebooks) and link it from the signal — the inbox stays scannable, and the full analysis is one click away.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Use case | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| **Mine any Slack channel** | Sync a channel into the [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) and a scout reads it like any other table – a user-feedback channel, an internal team channel (we run one over our own `#team-self-driving`), an external alerting or on-call channel, even a community Discord relay. The moment it's a table, it's fair game. |
| **Watch any custom event** | Scouts aren't limited to analytics events – point one at *any* event you capture: a custom customer-support event, a feedback submission, a domain-specific action. Internally we run separate scouts on PostHog AI thumbs-down feedback, PostHog Code task feedback, and the per-product in-app feedback widgets. |
| **Keep an eye on what you already care about** | Hand a scout a curated set of *your* dashboards, insights, and alerts — the metrics your team checks every morning – and have it stay quiet until one of them actually moves against its own baseline. |
| **Own a funnel or a journey** | A scout can watch your key funnels and activation flows across every PostHog feature you use, flag a conversion or retention regression against the flow's own trailing baseline — and even propose the A/B [experiment](/docs/experiments) to fix the weakest step. |
| **Have it read your codebase** | Give a scout a repo and a job: scan recent code changes and keep your [agent skills](https://agentskills.io/specification) in sync as things move, catch docs that have drifted out of date, flag a feature shipped with no instrumentation, spot a third-party API version about to be deprecated, or run a static-analysis tool over the last week's diffs. |
| **Let it dogfood your own tools** | A scout can *use* your product, not just read it – we run one that random-walks our own [MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) tool surface and files the rough edges it hits first-hand (and once scouts can reach external MCPs, this extends to whatever you've built). |
| **Point a scout at your scouts** | A meta-scout that audits the rest of the fleet for miscalibration, plus a follow-up scout that re-checks "resolved" reports after a soak window to confirm the fix actually held. |
| **Let findings carry real depth** | When a finding is more than a sentence, a scout can write the charts and supporting queries into a [notebook](/docs/notebooks) and link it from the signal – the inbox stays scannable, and the full analysis is one click away. |
```

| **Right-sized models** | A scout watching for a simple threshold breach doesn't need the same horsepower as one reasoning across products. Letting simpler scouts run on cheaper, faster base models keeps the fleet economical as it grows. |
| **Smarter triggers** | Scouts run on a schedule today. Time is the simplest trigger, but not always the right one — we want scouts that wake on the *event that matters* (a deploy, a spike, another scout's finding) instead of just waiting for the next tick. |

The pattern here is to lean in and embrace being agent pilled, keep the core tiny and the skill in charge, and let scouts climb the [self-driving pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) — from noticing, to recommending, to doing.

## Try it yourself

Scouts are still rolling out gradually and are invite-only for now while we shake out the rough edges — wider access is coming soon. If you want in early, email [team-self-driving@posthog.com](mailto:team-self-driving@posthog.com) and we'll get you set up.

> Once they're available to you, the home base is [PostHog Code](/code), our desktop coding agent — download it, sign in, and the PostHog MCP is wired up for you. From there you can navigate to the Agents section and explore the set of [canonical scouts](/docs/start-here/scouts) PostHog ships with as well as make your own custom scouts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once they're available to you, the home base is [PostHog Code](/code), our desktop coding agent – download it, sign in, and the PostHog MCP is wired up for you. From there you can navigate to the Agents section and explore the set of [canonical scouts](/docs/start-here/scouts) PostHog ships with as well as make your own custom scouts.
```

A scout is, at its core, **a skill** — and that skill is the main interface everyone works through, human or agent. The business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions now starts life as a few hundred lines of English anyone can read, write, and improve (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)).

![Andrej Karpathy's tweet: "The hottest new programming language is English"](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/karpathy_tweet_8e8a64e5ed.png)

You can't get away with this for every data pipeline — plenty still needs determinism — but where you have the flexibility, the trade-offs are increasingly worth it.

This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that [watches agent-driven MCP feedback](#1-the-mcp-feedback-scout-the-code-one), and one that [watches what the internet says about us](#2-the-brand-mentions-scout-the-non-code-one).

> This is the deep dive. If you just want the short version, the [docs](/docs/start-here) walk the whole [self-improving loop](/docs/start-here/self-improving-loop) – scouts, signals, reports, and the inbox – at a glance. And if you just want to see scouts in action, skip to [two scouts, end to end](#two-scouts-end-to-end) – there's an ~8 minute video walkthrough of a real scout run there too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the deep dive. If you just want the short version, the [Self-driving docs](/docs/start-here) walk the whole [self-improving loop](/docs/start-here/self-improving-loop) – scouts, signals, reports, and the inbox – at a glance. And if you just want to see scouts in action, skip to [two scouts, end to end](#two-scouts-end-to-end) – there's an ~8 minute video walkthrough of a real scout run there too.
```

        Loop --> MCP["<b>PostHog MCP</b><br/>read your data"]
        Loop --> Scout["<b>scout tools</b><br/>- profile<br/>- scratchpad<br/>- emit"]
    end

    Harness -->|findings| Pipe

    subgraph Pipe["Self-driving pipeline"]
        direction LR
        Sig["signal"] --> Buf["buffer"] --> Grp["grouping"] --> Rep["report"] --> Act["action"]
    end

    style Coord fill:#1d4aff,stroke:#1535b3,color:#fff
    style Harness fill:#f9f9f9,stroke:#d0d0d0,color:#333
    style Skill fill:#f54e00,stroke:#c43d00,color:#fff
    style Loop fill:#ffeb9c,stroke:#d9b441,color:#333
    style MCP fill:#e8f0fe,stroke:#1d4aff,color:#333
    style Scout fill:#eafbe7,stroke:#3aa655,color:#333
    style Pipe fill:#fafafa,stroke:#e0e0e0,color:#333
    style Sig fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Buf fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Grp fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Rep fill:#fff,stroke:#999,color:#333
    style Act fill:#f54e00,stroke:#c43d00,color:#fff
```

The main ingredients are:

| Ingredient | What it is |
| --- | --- |
| Agent loop runner | The thing that actually pumps the loop (`runner.py`, `arun_signals_scout()`). |

> | Tools for the agent | Mostly just the [PostHog MCP](https://1c173e83.posthog-preview.pages.dev/docs/model-context-protocol) — the same one you can connect to Claude Code or Cursor today. The aim is to build as little custom code as possible; the agent reads your data through the exact tools anyone else gets. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Tools for the agent | Mostly just the [PostHog MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) — the same one you can connect to Claude Code or Cursor today. The aim is to build as little custom code as possible; the agent reads your data through the exact tools anyone else gets. |
```

### 2. The brand mentions scout (the non-code one)

`signals-scout-brand-mentions` ([you can read it as a gist](https://gist.github.com/andrewm4894/0eb4d6dde2fd10689b7027668a289ad5)) watches what the internet says about PostHog. And the way it gets that data is the point.

**Anything you can land in PostHog is scout-able.** We pipe a social-listening tool (Octolens) into a Slack channel, and that channel is synced into the [PostHog data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) as a regular table. 

The scout just queries it with SQL like any other PostHog data. There's nothing special about "analytics events" here — warehouse sources, Slack relays, third-party feeds, all of it becomes fair game for a scout the moment it's in PostHog. This is a big part of why scouts are general-purpose rather than a product-analytics-only feature.

This scout sits higher on the [self-driving pyramid](/blog/self-driving-product) than the MCP one: when it finds something, the action usually isn't a PR — it's comms, product strategy, or just situational awareness. A few real (anonymized) examples it surfaced:

| Finding | What happened |
| --- | --- |

> | A reputational narrative escalating | A privacy claim about PostHog jumped from niche threads to a large-audience commentator, with the framing shifting to attack PostHog directly (and, notably, inaccurately). The scout emitted a P2 recommending comms/legal own the narrative – citing the two earlier, lower-severity findings it had filed about the same theme as it built. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **A reputational narrative escalating** | A privacy claim about PostHog jumped from niche threads to a large-audience commentator, with the framing shifting to attack PostHog directly (and, notably, inaccurately). The scout emitted a P2 recommending comms/legal own the narrative – citing the two earlier, lower-severity findings it had filed about the same theme as it built. |
```

> | Us, roasted, repeatedly | The scout keeps a running "PostHog is too complex / bloated" theme – and the genuinely useful part is watching it decide what's worth your attention. Most of these never clear the bar (one voice, low reach, a matter of taste), so the scout logs each with a deadpan verdict and a "promote if a second voice echoes" trigger, and stays quiet. Pop these open for the actual public roasts – and the scout's clinical reasoning for holding them. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Us, roasted, repeatedly** | The scout keeps a running "PostHog is too complex / bloated" theme – and the genuinely useful part is watching it decide what's worth your attention. Most of these never clear the bar (one voice, low reach, a matter of taste), so the scout logs each with a deadpan verdict and a "promote if a second voice echoes" trigger, and stays quiet. Pop these open for the actual public roasts – and the scout's clinical reasoning for holding them. |
```

---
title: 'What is a Scout? A technical deep dive'
date: 2026-06-23
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - andy-maguire
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/scouts_84b3669c0f.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
    - Explainers
seo:
    metaTitle: 'What is a Scout?'
    metaDescription: 'A scout is a small scheduled agent that watches your PostHog data, learns what is worth knowing, and emits useful signals you (or your agents) can act on. Here is how they work, with real examples.'
---

A scout is a small agent (don't overthink that word) that looks at, wrangles, and makes sense of any data available in PostHog. It's a core component of [Self-driving](/docs/start-here) in PostHog (now in open beta), an autonomous loop that monitors your product for patterns and drafts fixes. 

> Its job is to emit useful **signals** — things worth knowing — that you or your agents can act on. Sometimes that action happens automatically, like an agent opening a PR to fix what the scout found, sometimes it needs some human judgement before you and your agent can tackle it together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A scout's job is to emit useful **signals** – things worth knowing – that you or your agents can act on. Sometimes that action happens automatically, like an agent opening a PR to fix what the scout found, sometimes it needs some human judgement before you and your agent can tackle it together.
```

> A scout is, at its core, **a skill** — and that skill is the main interface everyone works through, human or agent. The business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions now starts life as a few hundred lines of English anyone can read, write, and improve (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A scout is, at its core, **a skill** – and that skill is the main interface everyone works through, human or agent. The business logic that used to be a sprawl of `if/else` branches and helper functions now starts life as a few hundred lines of English anyone can read, write, and improve (obligatory [Karpathy tweet](https://x.com/karpathy/status/1617979122625712128)).
```

![Andrej Karpathy's tweet: "The hottest new programming language is English"](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/karpathy_tweet_8e8a64e5ed.png)

You can't get away with this for every data pipeline — plenty still needs determinism — but where you have the flexibility, the trade-offs are increasingly worth it.

> This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project — one that [watches agent-driven MCP feedback](#1-the-mcp-feedback-scout-the-code-one), and one that [watches what the internet says about us](#2-the-brand-mentions-scout-the-non-code-one).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This post walks through how scouts work in PostHog, with two real scouts we run on our own project – one that [watches agent-driven MCP feedback](#1-the-mcp-feedback-scout-the-code-one), and one that [watches what the internet says about us](#2-the-brand-mentions-scout-the-non-code-one).
```

> This is the deep dive. If you just want the short version, the [Self-driving docs](/docs/start-here) walk the whole [self-improving loop](/docs/start-here/self-improving-loop) – scouts, signals, reports, and the inbox – at a glance. And if you just want to see scouts in action, skip to [two scouts, end to end](#two-scouts-end-to-end) – there's an ~8 minute video walkthrough of a real scout run there too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the deep dive. If you just want the short version, the [Self-driving docs](/docs/start-here) walk the whole [self-improving loop](/docs/start-here/self-improving-loop) – scouts, signals, reports, and the inbox – at a glance. 

If you just want to see scouts in action, skip to [Two example scouts, explained end to end](#two-example-scouts-explained-end-to-end) – there's an ~8 minute video walkthrough of a real scout run there too.
```

2. **If it is, the scout emits a [signal](/docs/start-here/signals)** — a semi-structured finding with evidence, and a suggested action.
3. **Signals get picked up by the [self-driving pipeline](/docs/start-here/self-improving-loop)**, grouped, and turned into **[reports](/docs/start-here/reports)** that land in your PostHog [Inbox](/docs/start-here/inbox).
4. **Reports get actioned** — by you, or automatically by a PostHog Code task that picks up the report and ships a fix or improvement.

A report can be made up of many signals from many sources. Scouts are just one of those sources. 

A single report – say "this MCP tool keeps blowing the token budget" – might be assembled from a scout finding, error tracking, a few raw events, and a health check, all grouped together because they're about the same underlying problem.

Scouts are one (agent-pilled) way PostHog Self-driving detects there's something to do at all. They help [make your product self driving](/blog/self-driving-product) by automating routine papercuts (great for full automation), so you can focus more on strategic judgement work (firmly human still).

> ## How it works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How scouts work
```
